---
layout: page
title: Biography
permalink: /biography/
---

Tareq Abuissa is a Syrian-American composer, lyricist, and multi-instrumentalist. While studying Music and Mathematics at Columbia University, he co-composed the 118th Annual Varsity Show, <i>The Corporate Core</i>. His work for chamber ensemble, animation, and dance has been presented at Columbia University’s Miller Theatre, University of Southern California, and Barnard College, respectively. His 10-track studio album debut, <i>Echoing Green</i>, will be released in 2017. He is the composer-lyricist and music director for <i>South of Market: The Musical</i>, an annual satire on San Francisco’s tech industry. Abuissa is a member of the Society of Composers & Lyricists. 

Tareq was born in Austin, Minnesota, the first of four children, to a programmer mother and civil engineer father. In 1995, the family moved to Iowa City, Iowa, where his parents and siblings reside. Tareq attended Shimek Elementary School, and at age 7 began studying cello and piano at Preucil School of Music. Encouraged by his grandfather Jerry Siegel as a teenager, Tareq began teaching himself guitar and songwriting. He began recording his first albums in the United Action for Youth studio. 

At Iowa City High School, Tareq ran cross-country, led a biweekly sketch comedy forum, acted in Combined Efforts Theatre, and performed group improv at the Iowa All-State Speech Association Festival. He sang in Concert Choir, Jazz Choir, Männerchor, and the Iowa State Honors Choir. He composed and conducted a piece for the orchestra’s cello section, and composed another piece for his Symphony Orchestra. He was a first-stand cellist at the Iowa All-State Orchestra Festival, was named a National Merit Finalist, and graduated in May 2010 to attend Columbia University.

Tareq studied Music and Mathematics, with courses including Harmony and Counterpoint, Composition and Cognition, Calculus, and Probability. He co-composed the 118th Annual Varsity Show with Solomon Hoffman. Tareq served as a Unit Leader at Interlochen Center for the Arts, and composed for campers in the High School Boys division. He held a Strategy & Business Development internship with Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, then with Lincoln Center’s Media Development department, scoring two artist interview series. As a senior, he scored three Animation thesis films at the University of Southern California’s School of Cinematic Arts and a Dance thesis at Barnard College.  